Comparing OS Platforms: Ubuntu, CentOS, and RedHat (RHEL)

Ubuntu is an operating system based on the Debian Linux kernel. There is a
server version of Ubuntu that is also free and open source, but Ubuntu is
well known as an entry-level distribution for beginning users of Linux,
called Ubuntu Desktop. It uses its own custom user interface that is unique
compared to Microsoft Windows or Mac OS.

In relation to servers, RedHat may refer to RedHat Enterprise Linux (RHEL),
a commercial server distribution based on Fedora. Fedora is an operating system
built from a Unix-like Linux kernel that is open-source and community-based,
and commonly know through the free desktop version, Fedora Workstation.

CentOS is a downstream, free derivative of the RHEL. Some aspects of CentOS are
to be referred, then, to the upstream version (RHEL) when working with updates,
fixes, and features.

There are a few reasons I would choose to use Ubuntu Server. First, Ubuntu
is a complete package, unlike CentOS, derived from RHEL. Because of my level
of experience in dealing with server operating systems, I only wish to deal
with one platform and one source for information about the server I'm running.
In my research, I often have seen the reference to issues and topics about
CentOS that need to be accessed on the RedHat website. This isn't the case with
Ubuntu; it isn't derived from another enterprise version I would need to worry
about. I don't wish to have to poke around in RHEL to get information to assist
me if I were to run CentOS. 

Also, Ubuntu offers more online sources of information by taking more of a
community approach, and it has been easier to find many support topics,
including installation guide, user manual, forums, and there is also an
additional 'Ask' portion of the website. It's just more user friendly to me.

Finally, Ubuntu Server 16.04 LTS, the latest server version, is supported for
five years, with regularly scheduled 6-month updates. I like the predictability
of the update schedule, as opposed to CentOS, without a set schedule and
without knowing when to anticipate an update.

